---
layout: post
title: hello mpc
excerpt_separator:  <!--more-->
mathjax: true
---

MPC is a c++ header-only template library for describing the mechanical properties of crystals and polycrystalline aggregates.  The library’s primary purpose is to compute the static effective stiffness and compliance tensors of heterogeneous or composite materials and the corresponding velocities.  We assume that the material obeys Hooke’s law; that is, there exists a linear relationship between the stress applied to the material and the corresponding strain.  Hooke’s law is written in concise suffix notation as

MathJax test $$\forall x \in R$$

$$
M = \left( \begin{array}{ccc}
x_{11} & x_{12} & \ldots \\
x_{21} & x_{22} & \ldots \\
\vdots & \vdots & \ldots \\
\end{array} \right)
$$

### core data structures

#### terminology and mpc conventions

The MPC library was designed for the explicit calculation of mechanical properties in a three-dimensional Cartesian space.  While stress and strain can be measured in two dimensions and possibly any curvilinear coordinate system, this higher level of abstraction was considered beyond the scope of the project.  Therefore, all tensors are considered to be Cartesian tensors in a three-dimensional space.
Like most computational libraries, MPC has a few core data structures for which to work with.  Most notably, the StiffnessTensor class and the ComplianceTensor class are used throughout the library to describe the mathematical objects, the stiffness and compliance tensors, respectively.  Before we can use these classes, we must discuss the terminology of tensors used in the library and the abstract data types that form the foundation of the library generated from these concepts.
As previously mentioned, we will do our investigation in three-dimensional space calculating the stiffness and compliance of a representative volume; therefore, the indices will take the range i,j,… = 1,2,3.  This is known as the range convention.  The second convention to note, which we have already used, is the summation convention for which we define the rank of a tensor as the number of “free” indices – those indices which do not repeat.  For example, the stiffness and compliance tensors are of rank four corresponding to the free indices i, j, k, and l.  The stress and strain tensors are of rank two corresponding to the free indices i and j, or k and l.  A vector is of rank one and is written in suffix notation as v_i where i takes the range 1,2,3 in three dimensional space.  Finally, a scalar value is a tensor of rank zero and written without a free index as α.  Note that a tensor with a “dummy” index is also a scalar value, e.g. α_ii.  These invariants are very important in tensor analysis and will be discussed later in sections
